let's just say this might be one of
those times where you don't try this at
home you know what guys
I got new merch it's available now karma
calm /jc cents we got zip up hoodies we
got tri-blend we got a new logo I
digress since 2012 but the rest logo you
guys been asking for that anyway
well guys live it up we all kinds of
stuff zip up hoodies beanies polos don't
take my word for it cuz obviously I
can't do this edie so just look in the
description below and you guys will find
the link Thanks so a video I've never
done that I've always kind of wanted to
is basically how much pressure can a
loop hold so this is inspired by
something that happened with Nick and I
couple years ago where I was showing him
with a thermal-imaging camera how a
radiator works cuz he didn't know so I
was kind of explaining it to how it's a
double pass which means it goes through
one half turns comes back out and how on
an thermal-imaging camera you can
actually see that temperature gradient
it changes color across the rat and you
can see the split right down the middle
in order to further prove my point I was
using a heat gun on the radiator to heat
it up one of the tubes popped off and
then we got like a 10-foot geyser of
water that just you went flying up to
the ceiling because you know when fluids
get hot they expand and when they expand
past the bursting point of whatever
they're being contained into bad things
happen kind of like opening up the
radiator on a car but I don't want to
destroy perfectly good hardware like
that's the test loop that we had built
for the 5700 XT liquid devil from power
color I I kind of wanted to see where an
acrylic block will blow up I also don't
feel like losing my eyeballs and stuff
so we are gonna be having at least I'm
gonna be wearing this Phil's got his
regular glasses on and I wanna have to
buy them a new set of spectacles but
hopefully that doesn't come to it I also
was trying to figure out how I wanted to
do this now we did something similar
sort of similar because we ripped this
bit power valve right into with the
amount of pressure that we were using
because you see the pneumatic stuff is G
quarter thread just like this stuff
which means I could actually plumb a
hose with my compressor right into the
loop and this is capable of 150 psi that
says I shouldn't be exceeding 90 though
hmm so what I'm using now is actually a
fantex valve which is a single body with
a coordinate that you know rotates so
that he has a ball valve that closes off
and then it's all threaded in that way I
can you know turn up my regulator here
dang I can't go less than 20 psi I can't
I oh here we go that's like five right
there the point of this video is just
we're destroying some of our stuff for
the sake of bringing you guys a video
there's no other way to put it look
you're never gonna exceed the capability
of however much pressure this radiator
can hold or this block can hold or this
reservoir can hold over the tubes or the
fittings I'm using soft tubing because
of the fact that they're compression and
they actually clamp down on the tube I
don't expect it to pop off the the other
thing too is hard tubing will just
actually hard tubing will be less
destructive which one oh the truth not
necessarily for your components in terms
of fluid but because the tube would just
slide out of the o-ring and pop right
off sending fluid everywhere ask Kyle
and then you would just end up dousing
all your components in fluid but not
actually blowing up anything if that
makes sense because it's just an o-ring
squeezing on the outside of the tube and
then it just slides out I think I also
just gave someone the story of the birds
and the bees right there but I digress
I'm also using this metal block because
for the same reason I described a moment
ago I don't want to necessarily explode
the acrylic I don't think it's gonna
happen I think the o-ring in there would
fail first but just for extra strength
but I'm really starting to get nervous
now like I feel like in Mythbusters how
they have that blast shield I feel like
I need one
I just realized like if I open this
valve no because this is under pressure
to here so water can't go that way we
just don't want this to fill up with
fluid that'd be bad you know what though
it's at 150 it'll turn itself off it's
saying not to use more than 90 psi on
the tube I just want to see what happens
here dude did you see how much it's
introducing oh it is introducing air duh
this shield this really seems like a bad
idea now hey girl he does because I'm
like do I just start giving more
pressure what do I do
oh all the tubes are moving I can't see
what's happening I don't look what's the
pressure at it's at 30 psi
[Music]
now it's not so bad rat eighty psi
oh no wait sorry right sixty what's that
in bar alright I think these are only
rated to like to bar I can't watch I
can't believe it hasn't exploded yet
9100 we're gonna max out the compressor
dude okay I'm just gonna crank the
knobby ready that's all of it that's all
holy that's out 140 psi
no I'm dry but what happened is I wear a
tie leap forward and the neck clicked on
and so my nerves were already shot so oh
my god it was bending the radiator in it
wait no I all right our our
air-conditioner heater thing just kicked
on so sorry about the noise okay look if
you ever had any doubts that alpha cool
radiators were built freaking tough look
how boat it is it's even like wah-wah
it's bowed Oh like we were hearing it go
140 is work okay I cranked it I was like
oh Dave 148 it has it and then exploded
and the radiator did not leak look it
actually pushed that out you see that
right it like shaved a thread off yeah
all I know is under I was under the
table and then suddenly this thing with
oh yeah I'm trying to dry off the studio
everything everything's wet so all right
yeah just don't tell don't tell OSHA so
we just went and looked at the replay
and basically we created a hydro rocket
man we created a hydro rocket this was
well and then took the whole thing off
of the table with it I am legitimately
shocked at how much abuse that radiator
just took it deformed and it still held
pressure and it's still holding pressure
I'm pretty sure actually so what I'm
gonna do a quick I want to see if this
will go back together and if it will
hold pressure
holy crap they didn't bend the freaking
no it totally did Oh cuz it was like
this yeah thanks I know I've already
said this but man alpha cool that's uh
well that's the German engineering I
think they should rename that from the
Nexus to the Panzer cool I'm almost
positive these threads are fine because
they don't look damaged I'm so confident
I'm gonna go right to putting water in
it without
with the psu this power supply still wet
what could go wrong if you've had
concerns about water cooling just pop it
off under pressure but it's possible
obviously we just showed that but if
you're worried about it happening in
your system because of the heat that can
be generated I've seen people be like if
the pump stops running this temperature
will get hot and then it will explode
shut up that is a perfectly warm
reusable wow I guess I don't know if I
would use this again they think is it
the tank
the tanks are stretched out you see him
how they're bowed and for the fifth time
ALPA cool man did you build a hell of a
strong red I thought that I thought the
solder is in stuff in the rows would get
first I thought a row would explode
first he seems different how much the
metal stretched you see me just moved
it's not flat anymore I think the the
like dual rotary fitting thing was being
bound thanks for watching guys as always
we'll see you in the next one clean it
up later
[Music]